so if you're switching from a console to
a PC and you want to bring your
controller over you and be able to play
on your smooth new pc with lower inut
lag and way more FPS with the controller
then this is the guide for you and for
existing PC users that just want to have
lower input lag on their controller so
by default your controller is not at
1,000 HZ plugged into the PC wired or
Wireless it's not going to be at 1,000
HZ so this guy specifically is for wi
controllers and for people that want to
get maximum input delay reduction ction
out of their controller and Xbox
controllers this guide will not work and
frankly most guides out there will not
work unless you purchase a new
controller and the reason for that is
just because Xbox controllers are
completely locked when it comes to
overclocking even though the tool lets
you technically overclock it and it
technically works if you check the
pulling rate on the actual controller
it's still at whatever the default is
which most likely for a Xbox controller
it's either 250 HZ or 125 HZ which is
terrible and it's still going to be a
lot of implex so on Xbox controller
consider getting the victrix gaming
controller it's also an Xbox layout but
they let you overclock it since they
modded the controller otherwise just go
to a PS5 controller or PS4 but anyways
if you want a PS4 controller or a
controller that is based on the
PlayStation platform then you can follow
this video and you should be able to get
a lot more out of your controller and a
lot less simple lag and faster mechanics
so if you go to the link in description
and go to the Google Drive Link you will
be sent over to the controller low
latency guide. zip file and basically
just download it and then once you have
it downloaded all you're going to do is
going to right click on this click
extract here and it'll make this new
folder here double click on this and
basically we're going to go to prep and
we're going to prep our system in order
to overclock the controller and make
sure it works without any hiccups so
double click that and the first thing
we're going to do is and this is for
both Windows 10 and for Windows 11
you're going to double click on install
certificate for overclocking to work and
you're going to click install
certificate I would just do local
machine click next next and press finish
and then press okay and press okay and
then what this certificate does is
basically it lets the driver work
properly and it won't cause any issues
and it'll let you overclock perfectly
fine and then Windows 11 fixed this is
only for Windows 11 so if you are on
Windows 11 and you have secure boot
enabled in BIOS then 100% run this file
all you do just double click on it click
yes and then press okay I don't really
need to do this cuz I'm not on Windows
11 on this OS so I'm going to go back
I'm going to go to check polling rate
and before we do anything I just want to
basically show you guys how your
controller is actually being overclocked
just because some people think this
doesn't actually work even though you
can easily test it just with these tool
called xut input tester so before we get
started with checking it you're just
going to double click on the vision bus
installer and you're going to press next
you're going to press accept and then
next again and then install and just
press finish and you do have to restart
in order to do this but we're not going
to restart R you're just going to press
no we're going to go to DS4 Windows DS4
Windows double click on DS4 windows.exe
and by the way guys this is not needed
to use your controller this is only to
check check the pulling rate of your
controller so whenever we're done
checking our pulling rate we're going to
uninstall both of these programs cuz
they're both unneeded however if you do
like DS4 windows for whatever reason you
can still use it but I just highly
recommend that you really using it we're
going to go to profiles and we going to
click on default click edit and we're
pretty much going to maximize this a
little bit we're going to go to other
and then we're going to make sure we
turn on DS4 BT pull rate to Max or 1,000
and that should be it for this you don't
really have to do much else and then you
just press apply and then save and you
can just close out of this and just
press yes and now what we're going to do
is we're going to restart our PC and
then we're going to use the X input
tester to basically test if our pulling
rate is at the default all right so once
you've restarted your computer you're
pretty much going to go to the control
latency guide again you're going to go
to the check pulling rate and then
you're going to go to DS4 Windows just
open up DS4 windows and you're going to
pretty much just wait for it as you see
controller is using profile default
we're going to go back we're going to go
to xinput tester xinput test 4,000
samples. exe and make sure you have your
controller right next to you cuz you are
going to be moving the joystick around
consistently while this test is
happening so you're just going to double
click on this and then you're going to
grab your controller and then just move
the left stick around in a 360 motion
and as you can see I'm getting about 4
milliseconds which is probably like 250
HZ or 125 HZ so just keep moving it
around keep moving around it's taking
about 4,000 samples which is why it's
taking forever but just keep moving it
around and as you can see it's telling
us we're get in about 200 HZ pulling
rate which is probably 250 excluding the
outliers but yeah so as you can see that
stock without any overclock so you can
just press n and then press enter but
yeah as you guys can see that's pretty
much stock PS4 controllers without any
overclock so now we're going to go back
to the controller Lacy guide we're going
to go to overclock we're going to click
on disable useless audio controller and
if you don't use the audio jack on your
controller then this is really helpful
cuz it is pretty annoying that whenever
you plug in your controller just
switches the audio to it so go to view
to by connection expand whichever USB
controller you have for me it's Intel
just expand that find wireless
controller with the audio icon right
click on it click disable and then the
controller will if you plug the
controller in the same USB port it won't
switch to the audio jack on the
controller so that's really helpful and
helps fix that annoying issue and by the
way guys if you do change the USB port
or if you do change your controller then
the overclock will probably go away so
if you have the same exact controller so
two different standard PS4 controllers
but you plug them in the same USB port
the overclock won't go away but if you
get a for example A PS5 controller that
is a standard one and then you get a
dual sense Edge controller and you plug
them in the same USB port you are going
to have to overclock the Dual sense Edge
again but if you plug in a dual sense
Edge controller both of them and to two
different USB ports you are going to
have to overclock the one that isn't in
the USB port that's overclock but
anyways you're going to go to hid usbf
you're going to double click setup.exe
choose all from the devices find the one
that's child name which says wireless
controller click on it install service
filter on device and then change default
to 1,000 now for PS5 players you're
going to see 8,000 or stuff above 1,000
that doesn't work and you can verify it
with the X Ino test it doesn't set your
controller to 2,000 HZ or 8,000 HZ just
don't do that it's going to cause FPS
drops cuz it's going to send your data
more than one time instead of just
sending it normally how it does on 1,000
HZ so just do 1,000 HZ click restart and
I know it says four for you PS5 players
for B interval just ignore that it
doesn't really matter but yeah it's
restarting the controller right now it's
saying that it is still on the stock so
I'll restart it again so if it's bugged
out like this just unplug your
controller and then plug it back in some
of you might have to do that in order
for this to apply and as you can see
it's now apply so yeah for B interval
for PS4 it's going to say at one just
because it only has 1,000 for the
maximum so anyways just ignore that guys
again PS5 just do 1,000 anything above
that won't work you can literally verify
it with the X input tester you just
reduce your FPS if you do it above 1,000
and I know all these other guides tell
you to do 8,000 they're just they just
don't know that but yeah click close go
to overclock or go to control lazy guy
go check pulling rate again go to x
input tester and then go to samples and
then just move your again guys move this
very consistently like same exact motion
don't go too fast don't go too slow but
same exact motion I'm getting around 1
ms which is basically what you want I
know the pulling rate says 365 but
that's because if you scroll up I like
stopped moving it consistently so I'll
try to get a consistent result here but
but with 2,000 samples just because it's
a little bit less but yeah I'll try to
move this joystick around just like that
but as you can see pulling rate 976
basically at th000 HZ and basically it's
super stable and yeah that's basically
my controller overclocked the PS4 is now
overclocked and I should be getting
lower input lag but yeah again guys if
this really helped you leave a like
comment down below if this really helped
you but yeah you guys are pretty much
good to go you can close out a the S4
windows and you can literally go to
settings go to apps and uninstall the
the vision bus driver you literally
don't need this any that was only just
to test the X input tester and without
this it just doesn't work so like if I
try to run it now as you can see Xbox
360 controller not found so that's the
only reason we used DS4 windows and the
other one so yeah you guys are pretty
much good to go hop in game play with
the controller Get Low rample lag edit
faster shoot faster etc etc yeah
hopefully it solved a lot of the
headaches I really had to make this
video just because there's a lot of
misinformation going around with the
controllers a lot of misconceptions and
just cleaning them up over and over
again was pretty annoying so putting
them all in one place is very helpful
but yeah if you guys enjoyed leave a
like comment down below what I should do
next and if you guys have any questions
about controllers leave it down below
especially you Xbox players cuz you guys
do cope a lot I'm not going to lie you
Xbox players even though I tell you it
doesn't work you think oh still I still
feel differ that's Placebo buddy you can
test it with the xino tester but yeah if
you guys want a full PC optimization
service where you get zero input delay
and way more FPS in all of your games go
to the link in the description and book
an optimization service I'll V with your
favorite professional players like Booga
for example and pretty much if you guys
enjoyed leave a like comment down below
and I'll see you guys in the next one
peace out